Priority #1: get the MCP23S17 working


	ECE 231 concepts! how to calculate the current through the resistor LED combo
	0. (note cannot use OHM's law b/c diode isn't a resistor, must use datasheet current-voltage characteristic)
	1. If = (3.3 - Vf)/R, where If and Rf are forward current and forward voltage
 	2. Guess a correct point on graph
	3. According to the datasheet for the LED we are using:
	@ 1.9V, there is 7mA
        @ 1.95V, there is 15mA

	From my resistor equation:
        @ 1.9V, there is 9.3mA
	@ 1.95V, there is 9mA

	Therefore, the real operating point is somewhere between 1.9 and 1.95V and 7mA and 15mA

	So, we were outputting at most 15mA current out of each pin, 8 times per MCP, which is 5 * 15mA = 120mA < 125mA limit.

	So, it is not possible that the MCP is actually damaged from this (even w/ resistor tolerance the range we created is just too big!! There is another problem

Possible problems
1. SPI not connecting
	test: use the who am i function (use exact same code as the gyro, very very carefully read MCP datasheet for source code)
	another test: test using purposely wrongly defined pins and see if MCP.begin stil works. if it still does, then spi may not be connectinat all



June 10:

We have gotten the MCP working. Let us ponder this problem. It seems that all the hall effects have been fried because they only pull up to 0.6. I replaced one and it pulls up to 3.3.

We will need to replace other hall effects and test that (tomorrow). Today we will consider if it is even possible that hall effects were fried.

But how?

We note from the datasheet that the maximum reverse output voltage is 0.5V. We surely exceeded this when testing and trying to write 3.3V into the hall effect pin

So, we must:
- replace all 15 of the fried hall effects
- resolder the broken LED
- frankestein a 5k resistor to the square that is missing one

Then we can start testing our firmware. Start w/ same handwritten code, and then try to implement the whole thign


June 17:
After much testing, i have NO idea why the voltage only pulls up to 0.6. We have two options

- amplify the 0.6 to 3.3 so the MCP can detect it
- try a different Hall effect sensor
- use an analog to digital converter to read it


June 20:
We could use ADC multixplexers. The drawback w/ multiplexers is that we can only recognize one input at a time. Let's think about this, is this okay?

We could poll all the inputs.

Therefore, it is okay! We don't even need a new PCB because the CD74HCx4067 multiplexer takes only the following inputs:
- power
- ground
- enable
- output to an ADC pin on microcontroller
- output to select pins on microcontroller

which we can Frankenstein easily enough


Note: the multiplexer device has a maxmimum source/sink current of 25mA. How do we control for that.\
Solution: recall the functionality of the open drain device. When enough gate voltage is applied, device is shorted, no current. When not enough gate voltage is applied, current determined by pullup resistor. If we use 5kohms, then 3.3V/5kohms = 0.66mA, far less than limit

June 21:
We have ordered the multiplexers. In the meantime, we shall think about the actual final design.

I don't believe there are any suitable 8x8 matrices. So we will try to use a 5mmx5mm LED: https://www.digikey.ca/en/products/detail/quelighting-corp/QLSP08RGB-B/15848745

How will we construct the actual board around the PCB? We need to use headers to bring out hall effects, but that's it. All else should be hidden. LEDS should shine beneath the wood

We should use my glass chessboard so that LED can shine through it?

Because hall effects are kind of weak from distance. I will take the thinnest wood I can buy and make a sort of mask.

June 24:
we have successfully soldered new esp on new board. the following is the minimum we need to Frankenstein in order to test the mux:
select signal (x4)
power (attach another capacitor)
ground (attach another capacitor)
common output (can use GPIO 15, confirmed ADC)
enable signal (tied to ground)
input signal (x2)

Regular solder the hall effect, pullup resistor and decoupling capacitor

10 Frankenstein's total

June 29:
To reduce the number of Frankensteins, we will ground three of the select signals and keep one for testing different channels

The one that is not soldered to ground is s0. When s0 is ON, channel is 1, when s0 is OFF, channel is 0.


July 2:
successfully tested them mux, also retested the MCP. problem with the MCP: we will need 4 on one spi line, but all four will need to communicate at the same (light up leds). how will we accomplish this

July 2 (night):
We are trying to test two MCP's on the same SPI, right now only one of them is working.

First, let's test just the not working one to see if all the PCB connections are correct.

If that is working, then let's reconfigure the SPI. Delete the CS_pin from the argument and see what happens